Critical	Care	Guidelines	
	FOR	CRITICAL	CARE	USE	ONLY	 	
Lothian Critical Care Directorate Guideline for the provision of End of 
Life Care in Critical Care patients  with COVID19 
 
• The following is intended as a guideline to ensure o ptimal and personalised care is 
provided to patients with COVID19 for whom withdrawal of life sustaining treatment ( WLST) 
is believed to be an appropriate clinical decision.   
• COVID19 may be the primary diagnosis in patients reac hing WLST but also may be 
concurrent diagnosis in patients with another primary pathology (eg ICH)  
• All decisions to provide end of life care must be ma de by Consultant staff and discussed 
fully with the patient’s family/ next of kin. 
 
WLST		in	patients	with	COVID19	should	follow	the	same	principles	as	described	in	the	current	Lothian 

Critical Care Directorate Guideline for the provision  of End of Life Care in Critical Care patients , with the 

following considerations: 
 
Family/NOK discussions 
• May not be possible to have this ‘face to face’ due  to potential COVID19 status of Family/NOK and 
risk to staff. 
• Aim to have discussion by phone  or Video Conference (VC), with nursing staff present 
 
Process of withdrawal of treatment  
• Provision of Anticipatory Care Prescriptions (ACP) shoul d follow normal practice to maintain comfort 
and alleviate distress 
• Management of withdrawal of respiratory support shoul d follow the usual practice with the 
considerations below: 
o Visiting can occur for a set period of time before W LST or after terminal extubation  
o Decision to perform terminal extubation should be at  the discretion of the clinician 
o If terminal extubation performed this  is an Aerosol Generating Procedure (AGP) and 
therefore Enhanced PPE (EPPE) is required for staff performing this   
o  Visitors should wear a surgical face mask and apron.  They are not required to wear gloves  
§ The risk of COVID19 transmission should be discussed  with NOK regarding visiting 
both before WLST and if terminal extubation performed , and they choose to be 
present after this 
o Any disconnection from the ventilator circuit without extubation to place the patient on an 
alternative system (C-Circuit, T-piece, Swedish nose) is also an AGP and the above 
precautions apply 
o Patient can be maintained on the ven tilator circuit until after PLE if desired. At time of 
disconnection from ventilator circuit and/or removal of ETT, this is an AGP  and EPPE should 
be worn and sufficient time given for the required air changes before patient movement  
• Patient face and hands should be cleaned immediately  before family/NOK presence to enable 
family/NOK to touch patient 
 
Visitors (at time of WLST) 
• If possible the patient should be managed in a side room  
• Cannot visit if symptomatic of COVID19  
• Only immediate family/NOK at time of WLST.  
• Maximum 2 visitors in total 
• Must wear PPE- Surgical face mask, apron, and perform hand hygiene. They do not have to wear 
gloves. 
• Must enter and leave Critical Care directly without  using any public areas Critical	Care	Guidelines	
	FOR	CRITICAL	CARE	USE	ONLY	 	
• Are not required to self-isolate after visiting unless they develop symptoms  
 
 
Organ donation 
• Referral for potential organ donation should follow t he normal pathway with a discussion with the 
SNOD. Patients with COVID19  will be screened as unable to proceed with organ dona tion. 
 
Last offices 
• The	principles	of	Standard	Infection	Control	Precautions	(SICPs)	and	Transmission	Based	
Precautions	(TBPs)	continue	to	apply	whilst	deceased	individual s	remain	in	the	care	environment.	  
• Where	the	deceased	was	known	or	suspected	to	have	be en	infected	with	COVID-19,	there	is	no	
requirement	for	a	body	bag,	and	viewing,	hygienic	preparati ons,	post-mortem	and	embalming	are	
all	permitted.		Within	Critical	Care,	the	use	of	a	body	bag	is	routine	practice	for	most	patients. 
 
Death notification 
• COVID19 is a notifiable disease but as per the guidance from the Chief Medical Officer on 24/3/20, 
deaths from COVID19 do not require to be reported to the Procurator Fiscal . Deaths that are 
covered by Section 3 of COPFS guidance, with co -existing COVID19 still require to be reported to 
the Procurator Fiscal as per usual practice.  	
	
	
Title:			:	 Lothian Critical Care Directorate Guideline for the provision of End of Life Care  in Critical Care 
patients with COVID19 

	
Authors:			Dr	Murray	Blackstock,	Carol	Calder	

Status	Draft/Final:	Final	
Approved	by:		

	
Written:		April	2020	